# 6 Weeks in (2024-06-05)

## Main Criticism

I reached 8X WPM on English 10k 2 min test a while back and have been practicing Quotes instead,
and I honestly do _not_ like Dusk as it.

There are two main glaring issues that I have noticed while practicing quotes:
### Hand Imbalance
When typing quotes at about 100 WPM with the presence of `',.`, 
I can't help but notice that my right hand is doing 
significantly more work than my left hand. 

On e10k, this is not an issue, but I am not really fine with it on quotes.

### `haei` + Vowel Space
Too many common words in quotes are redirects and it annoys me at high speed.
- `the<spc>`
- `he<spc>`
- `she<spc>`
- `hi<spc>`

Despite maining Dusk and practicing on MonkeyType everyday for at least 1 hour in the past month,
my right thumb still can't handle redirect nearly as fast as my left thumb. In partcular,
redirects are 2 letter outroll followed by the last letter inroll.

## Minor Criticism
These are things that I have hoped that I'd get used to, but didn't really happen.

### `pr`/`rp`
I really do not vibe with `rp` or `pr` and they are somewhat common. Maybe my hand is just too small.

### High Alt
Dusk as is now is still too high alternation for my taste, mostly attributed to the fact that 
most words end with a letter on the left hand side and space is on the right thumb. 


## What's next?
I am swapping `<spc>r`.

Thanks to using right thumb space for a bit, now I am no longer bother by some redirects
that used to bother me like `earlier` or `general`. I may never be able to burst these words to 
2XX WPM (`general` maybe doable), but 1XX is now easy to do. The common `are` don't bother me at all.

It's ... indeed redirect hell, but here is hoping that these redirect isn't 2 letters outroll followed by the last letter inroll.
I seem to be bothered by those the most.

But hey, now `or` and `er` are both inroll 
and this swap fixes all the complaints that I have in exchange for some more redirects that don't seem to bother me nearly as much,
and, of course, more long one-handed sequences like `allure`, which is not a good thing, but that's the price for having high roll.

## Takeaway
- It is likely not worth it to switch your space thumb just to learn a layout.
- Dusk really isn't that great and I can only conditionally recommend it. 
That is, 
  - if you are already using vowel thumb space with `h` on the index, then you likely won't agree with my complaints here; Dusk is probably good for you.
  - however, if you are using non-vowel thumb space like I did _and_ if you are bothered by thumb redirects, then Dusk (and honestly lots of other thumb layouts too) is **_not_** for you 
(no matter which thumb you space Dusk, you will always end up with thumb redirect.)

